README.md, before:

# ScrapeServ: Simple URL 🌐 to screenshots 📷 server

You run the API on your machine, you send it a URL, and you get back the website data as a file plus screenshots of the site. Simple as.

This project was made to support [Abbey](https://github.com/US-Artificial-Intelligence/abbey), an AI platform. Its author is [Gordon Kamer](https://x.com/gkamer8).

Some highlights:
- Scrolls through the page and takes screenshots of different sections
- Runs in a docker container
- Browser-based (will run websites' Javascript)
- Gives you the HTTP status code and headers from the first request
- Automatically handles 302 redirects
- Handles download links properly
- Tasks are processed in a queue with configurable memory allocation
- Blocking API
- Zero state or other complexity

This web scraper is resource intensive but higher quality than many alternatives. Websites are scraped using Playwright, which launches a Firefox browser context for each job.

## Setup

You should have Docker and `docker compose` installed.

1. Clone this repo
2. Run `docker compose up` (a `docker-compose.yml` file is provided for your use)

...and the service will be available at `http://localhost:5006`. See the Usage section below for details on how to interact with it.

### API Keys

You may set an API key using a `.env` file inside the `/scraper` folder (same level as `app.py`).

You can set as many API keys as you'd like; allowed API keys are those that start with `SCRAPER_API_KEY`. For example, here is a `.env` file that has three available keys:

```
SCRAPER_API_KEY=should-be-secret
SCRAPER_API_KEY_OTHER=can-also-be-used
SCRAPER_API_KEY_3=works-too
```

API keys are sent to the service using the Authorization Bearer scheme.

## Usage

The root path `/` returns status 200 if online, plus some Gilbert and Sullivan lyrics (you can go there in your browser to see if it's online).

The only other path is `/scrape`, to which you send a JSON formatted POST request and (if all things go well) receive a `multipart/mixed` type response.

The response will be either:

- Status 200: `multipart/mixed` response where the first part is type `application/json` with information about the request; the second part is the website data (usually `text/html`); and the remaining parts are up to 5 screenshots.
- Not status 200: `application/json` response with an error message under the "error" key.

Here's a sample cURL request:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5006/scrape"
    -H "Content-Type: application/json"
    -d '{"url": "https://us.ai"}'
```

Here is a code example using Python and the requests_toolbelt library to let you interact with the API properly:

```
import requests
from requests_toolbelt.multipart.decoder import MultipartDecoder
import sys
import json

data = {
    'url': "https://us.ai"
}
# Optional if you're using an API key
headers = {
    'Authorization': f'Bearer Your-API-Key'
}

response = requests.post('http://localhost:5006/scrape', json=data, headers=headers, timeout=30)
if response.status_code != 200:
    my_json = response.json()
    message = my_json['error']
    print(f"Error scraping: {message}", file=sys.stderr)
else:
    decoder = MultipartDecoder.from_response(response)
    resp = None
    for i, part in enumerate(decoder.parts):
        if i == 0:  # First is some JSON
            json_part = json.loads(part.content)
            req_status = json_part['status']  # An integer
            req_headers = json_part['headers']  # Headers from the request made to your URL
            metadata = json_part['metadata']  # Information like the number of screenshots and their compressed / uncompressed sizes
            # ...
        elif i == 1:  # Next is the actual content of the page
            content = part.content
            headers = part.headers  # Will contain info about the content (text/html, application/pdf, etc.)
            # ...
        else:  # Other parts are screenshots, if they exist
            img = part.content
            headers = part.headers  # Will tell you the image format
            # ...
```

## Security Considerations

Navigating to untrusted websites is a serious security issue. Risks are somewhat mitigated in the following ways:

- Runs as isolated container (container isolation)
- Each website is scraped in a new browser context (process isolation)
- Strict memory limits and timeouts for each task
- Checks the URL to make sure that it's not too weird (loopback, non http, etc.)

You may take additional precautions depending on your needs, like:

- Only giving the API trusted URLs (or otherwise screening URLs)
- Running this API on isolated VMs (hardware isolation)
- Using one API instance per user
- Not making any secret files or keys available inside the container (besides the API key for the scraper itself)

**If you'd like to make sure that this API is up to your security standards, please examine the code and open issues! It's not a big repo.**

## Other Configuration

You can control memory limits and other variables at the top of `scraper/worker.py`. Here are the defaults:

```
MEM_LIMIT_MB = 4_000  # 4 GB memory threshold for child scraping process
MAX_SCREENSHOTS = 5
SCREENSHOT_JPEG_QUALITY = 85
BROWSER_HEIGHT = 2000
BROWSER_WIDTH = 1280
USER_AGENT = "Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; Abbey/1.0; +https://github.com/US-Artificial-Intelligence/scraper)"
```

Commit message:

Add support for different image formats

README.md, after:

# ScrapeServ: Simple URL 🌐 to screenshots 📷 server

You run the API on your machine, you send it a URL, and you get back the website data as a file plus screenshots of the site. Simple as.

This project was made to support [Abbey](https://github.com/US-Artificial-Intelligence/abbey), an AI platform. Its author is [Gordon Kamer](https://x.com/gkamer8).

Some highlights:
- Scrolls through the page and takes screenshots of different sections
- Runs in a docker container
- Browser-based (will run websites' Javascript)
- Gives you the HTTP status code and headers from the first request
- Automatically handles 302 redirects
- Handles download links properly
- Tasks are processed in a queue with configurable memory allocation
- Blocking API
- Zero state or other complexity

This web scraper is resource intensive but higher quality than many alternatives. Websites are scraped using Playwright, which launches a Firefox browser context for each job.

## Setup

You should have Docker and `docker compose` installed.

1. Clone this repo
2. Run `docker compose up` (a `docker-compose.yml` file is provided for your use)

...and the service will be available at `http://localhost:5006`. See the Usage section below for details on how to interact with it.

### API Keys

You may set an API key using a `.env` file inside the `/scraper` folder (same level as `app.py`).

You can set as many API keys as you'd like; allowed API keys are those that start with `SCRAPER_API_KEY`. For example, here is a `.env` file that has three available keys:

```
SCRAPER_API_KEY=should-be-secret
SCRAPER_API_KEY_OTHER=can-also-be-used
SCRAPER_API_KEY_3=works-too
```

API keys are sent to the service using the Authorization Bearer scheme.

## Usage

The root path `/` returns status 200 if online, plus some Gilbert and Sullivan lyrics (you can go there in your browser to see if it's online).

The only other path is `/scrape`, to which you send a JSON formatted POST request and (if all things go well) receive a `multipart/mixed` type response. You could provide the desired output image format as Accept header MIME type. If no Accept header is provided, the screenshots are saved by default in JPEG format. The following values are supported:
- image/webp
- image/png
- image/jpeg

The response will be either:

- Status 200: `multipart/mixed` response where the first part is type `application/json` with information about the request; the second part is the website data (usually `text/html`); and the remaining parts are up to 5 screenshots.
- Not status 200: `application/json` response with an error message under the "error" key.

Here's a sample cURL request:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5006/scrape"
    -H "Content-Type: application/json"
    -d '{"url": "https://us.ai"}'
```

Here is a code example using Python and the requests_toolbelt library to let you interact with the API properly:

```
import requests
from requests_toolbelt.multipart.decoder import MultipartDecoder
import sys
import json

data = {
    'url': "https://us.ai"
}
# Optional if you're using an API key
headers = {
    'Authorization': f'Bearer Your-API-Key'
}

response = requests.post('http://localhost:5006/scrape', json=data, headers=headers, timeout=30)
if response.status_code != 200:
    my_json = response.json()
    message = my_json['error']
    print(f"Error scraping: {message}", file=sys.stderr)
else:
    decoder = MultipartDecoder.from_response(response)
    resp = None
    for i, part in enumerate(decoder.parts):
        if i == 0:  # First is some JSON
            json_part = json.loads(part.content)
            req_status = json_part['status']  # An integer
            req_headers = json_part['headers']  # Headers from the request made to your URL
            metadata = json_part['metadata']  # Information like the number of screenshots and their compressed / uncompressed sizes
            # ...
        elif i == 1:  # Next is the actual content of the page
            content = part.content
            headers = part.headers  # Will contain info about the content (text/html, application/pdf, etc.)
            # ...
        else:  # Other parts are screenshots, if they exist
            img = part.content
            headers = part.headers  # Will tell you the image format
            # ...
```

## Security Considerations

Navigating to untrusted websites is a serious security issue. Risks are somewhat mitigated in the following ways:

- Runs as isolated container (container isolation)
- Each website is scraped in a new browser context (process isolation)
- Strict memory limits and timeouts for each task
- Checks the URL to make sure that it's not too weird (loopback, non http, etc.)

You may take additional precautions depending on your needs, like:

- Only giving the API trusted URLs (or otherwise screening URLs)
- Running this API on isolated VMs (hardware isolation)
- Using one API instance per user
- Not making any secret files or keys available inside the container (besides the API key for the scraper itself)

**If you'd like to make sure that this API is up to your security standards, please examine the code and open issues! It's not a big repo.**

## Other Configuration

You can control memory limits and other variables at the top of `scraper/worker.py`. Here are the defaults:

```
MEM_LIMIT_MB = 4_000  # 4 GB memory threshold for child scraping process
MAX_SCREENSHOTS = 5
SCREENSHOT_QUALITY = 85
BROWSER_HEIGHT = 2000
BROWSER_WIDTH = 1280
USER_AGENT = "Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; Abbey/1.0; +https://github.com/US-Artificial-Intelligence/scraper)"
```
